---
layout: overview
permalink: /docs/extensions/overview
title: Technical overview
section: Extensions
---

# Technical overview of Shoutem Extensions

This document explains the overall architecture of Shoutem extensions in more details.

Each Shoutem extension represents a complete, self-contained functionality, e.g. an integration with a third party e-commerce provider. This extension would define multiple screens that will be available in the mobile app, any custom logic for purchasing products, and web pages that allow users to configure this integration through the Shoutem builder.

To accomplish all that we have divided extension into two main parts: app, and server. The app part contains everything that will be hosted within the RN mobile app, this can be anything from simple RN screens implemented in JS to complete native modules implemented using platform specific native technologies. The server part contains web pages that will be hosted within the Shoutem builder, and allow users to configure and manage extensions while creating their apps. Besides those two parts, extensions also have an extension.json file that contains the extension metadata. Extension.json is used on our backend to discover the functionalities that will become available to users in the Shoutem builder after the extension is installed.


Mobile application part
Each extension has a canonical name that consists of two segments separated by a single dot. The first segment represents a developer name, and the second one represents the name of the extension itself. For example `shoutem.news`. This allows us to avoid collisions between the components provided by different extensions. Each component exported from the extension into the Shoutem builder has a canonical name as well. The canonical name of a component always has an extension canonical name as a prefix, e.g., `shoutem.news.ArticleDetailsScreen`.

The application part of the extension is an npm package that will be hosted within the Shoutem mobile application. Our mobile application represents an environment in which all extensions are executed, and it provides certain dependencies out of the box. The extension environment is called the platform (`@shoutem/platform`), and each extension must define a range of platform versions in its extension.json that it is compatible with. The platform defines certain global dependencies like the version of react, react-native, redux, etc. More information about the dependencies provided by the platform can be found here (###TODO###).

Our application architecture is completely modular. At the center of everything is only a simple extension loader that discovers, loads, and initializes all extensions installed in the application. Everything else is implemented through extensions. Even the core Shoutem functionalities are implemented as regular extensions no different from extension that any third party developer can develop.

When the application is started, we simply load all extensions and run their lifecycle. At that point, one of our system extensions navigates to the initial screen of the application, and all other user interaction starts from there.

The primary interface between extensions and the rest of the application is defined by exports in their `index.js`. There are several predefined exports that are used by other parts of the system:
* lifecycle methods - methods that extensions can implement to be notified when the entire app is mounted, or unmounted. This can be useful to initialize the extension or clean up when the app is closing. Each of those methods receives an app parameter that represents the current app instance. Each of those methods may also return a promise, if a promise is returned the next lifecycle method will not be called until that promise is resolved.
    - appWillMount - invoked immediately before the mounting of the root app component occurs.
    - appDidMount - invoked after the root app component is mounted and after all promises from a previous lifecycle method are resolved.
    - appDidFinishLaunching - invoked after the app is mounted and after all promises from `appDidMount` have finished. This is the place to perform any final work before the first screen is rendered.
    - appWillUnmount - invoked immediately before the root app component is unmounted and destroyed. Perform any necessary cleanup in this method.
* screens - the screens that will be available for navigation
* actions - actions that can be attached to shortcuts
* reducer - the extension reducer, this reducer will be mounted under the extension namespace in the state
* middleware - redux middleware to register in the redux store
* enhancers - redux enhancers to register in the redux store

Besides the exports mentioned above, you may also export anything else you want to expose to other extensions. All extensions are installed as node modules, so importing from other extensions is done by simply importing from a package with the canonical name of the extension. For example, you can import the `getExtensionSettings` selector from the `shoutem.application` extension like this:
```
import { getExtensionSettings } from 'shoutem.application';
```

The application initializes the redux store before loading the extensions. Redux is used for state management, and to facilitate easier communication between the extensions. Communication between extensions can be accomplished in a few ways:
* reading from the state of other extensions
* dispatching actions from other extensions
* intercepting actions by using redux middleware
* directly importing public classes, functions, etc. from other extensions

The preferred way to read the data from the state is to export redux selectors, so that extensions don't directly depend on the internal state organization of other extensions. To simplify state management, the entire state of the application is divided into extension namespaces:
```
{
    'shoutem.application': {
        // state of the application extension made by shoutem
    },
    'tom.places': {
        // state of the places extension made by a
        // third party developer tom
    },
    ...
}
```
Each extension namespace is completely managed by the extension through the reducer exported from its `index.js`.

Modifying extensions
All our extensions are open sourced, so you can modify anything you want by simply forking them. Although this is probably the easiest way to modify extensions, it may not always be the best way to do it. If you fork an extension, you have to make sure to maintain it yourself. In other words, you lose automatic updates and bugfixes implemented by the extension owner.

A better approach may be to perform minimal changes to the extension by creating a new extension. This can be accomplished in several ways:
* modifying styling by creating a new theme
* creating completely new screen layouts
* creating new screen layouts by extending existing screens and overriding certain methods
* reading data from the state of other extensions
* intercepting actions from other extensions by registering a redux middleware. With this approach you can modify, suppress, or just examine any action dispatched in the app.

Server part

The server part of the extension contains the settings pages that are used to configure the extension through the Shoutem builder. Those pages can be implemented in several ways. They can be a standalone web site implemented using a web framework of your choice. With this approach you have complete freedom to do whatever you want. Pages like that are always be hosted within an iframe in the Shoutem builder.

Another way to implement those pages is to use React components. This approach to settings pages is still in development, but it will become a preferred way to implement settings pages. More detailed documentation regarding this approach will be available soon. Pages implemented using this approach can be hosted within an iframe, or they could also be embedded directly in the Shoutem builder, if an extension is approved by the Shoutem to run in this mode.

Beside settings pages, the server part of the extension can also contain data schemas for Shoutem cloud storage backend and theme variables. Shoutem could storage schema allows you to define a data type to be stored on the Shoutem backend using a standard JSON Schema format. When a user installs your extension in the Shoutem builder, all schemas defined within it become available in the web interface. The user is able to manually enter data in the Shoutem builder, or import data to the cloud storage from various supported sources. The web interface for data management is created automatically based on the JSON Schema from your extensions.

Theme variables schema is used for themes. Theme variables also use the JSON Schema standard to define the theme variables that can be customizable by users in the Shoutem builder. Using those variables, users are able to customize themes by changing colors, fonts, sizes, etc. Web interface for customizing theme variables is automatically created in the Shoutem builder based on the theme variables schema when your extension is installed in an application.